Hi welcome come back in this what you were looking at.
ORDER BY which is another sequel clause.
But first let's go over the challenge that we sent in the last video.
It wasn't really that fantastically explained but I encourage you to have a go.
Nevertheless I'm calculating how much in total customers have spent in your business.
I would recommend putting the video given that I go if you haven't already and then keep moving forwards
.
It's actually simpler than you may think originally.
The first thing to do is to figure out all your purchases.
So select staff from purchases that gives you all your purchases.
And then we're going to get which items were bought in each of those.
So we going to do in in a join in a join items on purchases top item underscore ID equals items not
ID.
So that gives you the purchases and for each purchase which item was bought and that has a price associated
with it.
So now instead of selecting stock we have to do is select some of items price and that adds all of them
together and it gives you the sum which is a 488 point or eight.
And that's the total that your customers have spent in your business with that challenge out of the
way I hope you've got that right.
Let's move on to a quite simple Plaut which is the order by.
And in order to look at it has some use for this clause.
I'm going to go back to finding out how much each customer spent in your business.
So once again I'm going to select staff from items from items and I'm going to do an inner join on purchases
for purchases.
Item ID equals items ID and as you know this is going to give me the items on each purchase and then
I'm going to do an inner join again on customers for customer purchases.
Daut customer id equal customers dot ID and that is going to give me for each purchase both the item
and the customer.
So now I'm going to select only the customer name first name customers or last name and the item price
and then I'm going to group by item.
So I group my customer group by customers not ID.
And now I no longer can select the price.
So I have to do a.
And that gives me how much each customer spent.
And we looked at this in the last video.
But finally I can order this by how much they spent so I can for example get the top most customers
spending the top order by AM.
And I have to give this an alias as total spen order by total spend and press play.
And that gives me them ordered.
OK.
So remember to give that an alias so you can order by it a bit more easily and then you can just order
by and then it orders ascending.
So the smallest number is at the top and the largest number is at the bottom.
If we wanted to order the other direction.
So the top most spending the top then we just see desk for descending and that puts the top most spend
at the top.
Similarly if you only wanted the first customer the top most spend in your business you could at the
end add limit 1.
And I'm just gonna put that in this video as well because it's a very simple keyword.
I don't really want to make you go through another video just for that.
Limit one or only gives you the first row limit to only gives you two most top pros and so on.
So this is how you do an order by and you can do desk for descending or ask for ascending although that's
the default.
You don't have to do that and then limit it just use to limit the number of rows that are being returned
and that's all.
So this is everything for this video.
Now let's move on into the next set of videos which are going to deal with essentially engaging with
goodness through the command line in creating tables and things like that towards a user